RFC 0008-ree_tee_boundary_simplification_and_hardening (#67)
rdkcentral/tasecureapi: docs/rfcs/accepted/0008-ree_tee_boundary_simplification_and_hardening/README.md

- Feature Name: REE/TEE boundary simplification and hardening
- Author(s): Bastien Simondi
- Start Date: 2023-04-07
- RFC PR: 0008
- Leader(s): Eric Berry

## Introduction

> Crossing trust boundaries create opportunities for adversarial code running in less trusted 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Crossing trust boundaries creates opportunities for adversarial code running in a less trusted 
```

> environment, to attack the more trusted environment. Integrating a 3rd party code on the more 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
environment to attack the more trusted environment. Integrating third party code within the  
```

> trusted world, is error prone and innevitably creates security loopholes proportionally linear 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
trusted environment is error prone and inevitably creates security loopholes proportionally linear 
```

> with the complexity of the integration. Special attention should be made to move the complexity 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to the complexity of the integration. Special attention should be made to move the complexity 
```

burden out of the partners' hands, and take control of systematic sanitization of the parameters 
at the REE/TEE boundary.

## Motivation / use-cases

In the context of this piece of code, it is assumed that TASECUREAPI is running inside of a 

> Trusted Application (TA), executing in a Trusted Execution Environment (TEE), and that a client 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Trusted Application (TA), executing in a Trusted Execution Environment (TEE), and that client 
```

code running in the (less trustworthy) Rich Execution Environment (REE, also known as Application 
CPU) runs Remote Procedure Calls (RPC) towards it, for a variety of exposed APIs.

All of those APIs compose an attack surface for the REE to try to abuse the code running in the 

> TA, to compromise secrets, gain execution etc. Every single parameter of all of the exposed APIs, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TA, to compromise secrets, gain execution control, etc. Every single parameter of all of the exposed APIs, 
```

> shall be consider under an attacker control, and properly sanitized.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
shall be considered under an attacker's control, and properly sanitized.
```

> Implementing a systematic sanitization layer for all APIs exposed by TASECUREAPI allows to isolate 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implementing a systematic sanitization layer for all APIs exposed by TASECUREAPI allows isolation 
```

> and seal the inner code logic against partners integration shortcomings or mistakes that would not 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and seals the inner code logic against partners' integration shortcomings or mistakes that would not 
```

properly mitigate external abuses. In other words, it moves a large chunk of the assumptions on 

> how secure is the integration toward deterministic sanitization checks handled in the inner code 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
how secure the integration is toward deterministic sanitization checks handled in the inner code 
```

logic (largely independent from the integration).

> This becomes particularly relevant as the number of partners integrating the code grow. Reducing 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This becomes particularly relevant as the number of partners integrating the code grows. Reducing 
```

> the complexity on partners hands, also reduce the complexity of the code review when verifying 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the complexity on partners hands, also reduces the complexity of the code review when verifying 
```

their integration.

## Updates/Obsoletes

> -

Reviewer: Add None to all empty sections.

Reviewer 2: Done

## Affected platforms

> -

Reviewer: All?

Reviewer 2: Done

## Open Source Dependencies

-

## Detailed design

> All parameters getting in the SEC API lib can be tricked and have malicious values. Said 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All parameters passed to the TASECUREAPI lib can be tricked and have malicious values. Said 
```

differently, every single parameter or value that is used directly or indirectly inside of the 

> code, shall be sanitized before being used. For all APIs. No exceptions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TASECUREAPI code, shall be sanitized before being used. For all APIs. No exceptions.
```

Most partners are using Global Platforms (GP) for RPC calls. Special effort should be made to 

> offer a compatible or easy to wire interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
offer a compatible or easy to wire interface for this architecture.
```

> Direct use of GP APIs (or providing an optional glue for GP) would allow the inner code also to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Direct use of GP APIs (or providing optional glue logic for GP) would allow the inner code also to 
```

> leverage GP types and take control over the expected types of parameters that are received, this 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
leverage GP types and take control over the expected types of parameters that are received. This 
```

will be one less thing for partners to handle.

Special attention in design shall be made to favor partners integration simplicity. Use of GP 
types and API is one option, reducing partners integration code to the minimum with simple 
portability interfaces is another way of enabling that. All efforts in reducing complexity from 

> partners' hands have a benefit on the security posture that scale accross integrations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
partners' hands have a benefit on the security posture that scales across integrations.
```

## Drawbacks

-

## Alternatives considered

> -

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- None.

```

Reviewer 2: Done
